this is a bucket this is a list this is
a video of me saying 20 horrible slurs
and this whole thing is going somewhere
I promise all right quick hypothetical
could you run a marathon right now nay
yeah right now yeah probably not what if
that was a gun to your head oh yeah but
you just said you couldn't well I could
if you're gonna kill me now obviously
this hypothetical works way better in
reality if you're chucking a couple of
months of training but the point is
clear you are capable of more than you
think provided there's a gun at your
head which I mean sadly there isn't
there isn't even hair in my head so am I
doomed to never run the distance or
could I create a situation in which
running a marathon feels just as
necessary
oh
massive thanks to short form for
sponsoring this video more on them later
[Music]
hello this is an old photo of me in my
old bedroom and that trophy right there
is from my soccer team the under seven
F's the sixth of six teams I was not a
sporty kid so as an adult I never ever
saw myself as an athlete so when I hear
stories about Goggins running like 100ks
I'm like bruh good for you but uh you
know for me that's impossible I mean not
entirely impossible but pretty much
impossible but that Gap that little
Slither of possible
there's something in that so let's break
it down you've got 42.2 kilometers 26.2
miles it's kind of like the distance
between Athens and
I just got that it's a famously
difficult feat so how do you run it
given that the whole gun to my head
things off the cards ads get creative
here's the plan step one make a video
that will 100 get me canceled hi my
name's Cam and here are my top 20
favorite slurs coming in at number 20.
oh
I am so so sorry step two is to schedule
that video to go live on this channel in
24 hours time
it's genuinely [__] genuinely [__] how
do I go back how do I go back what'd you
do
[__]
I think I have
[__] genuinely
okay no it isn't it isn't oh my God I
almost put that live instead of
scheduling it
oh
whoa
step three is for me to be rendered
useless by these guys Aaron and Billy
they're gonna take my wallet and lock my
phone out of YouTube that way the only
way that that video can be canceled is
if I'm at my laptop but Campbell this
laptop's right here well uh here's the
fun part step four is ask my friends to
drop me off from that computer
42.2 kilometers away and step five I'm
feeling a little bit nervous I think we
all know what step five is I have to do
it it's mandatory
do you think that you're purposefully
delaying this yes definitely run the
[__] Marathon
here we are at the starting line oh
I'm really nervous just picking the
perfect song oh I'm definitely dawdling
absolute Banger all right
deep breath go see ya see ya that was it
it wasn't a Fanfare there was no gun
which I think we already established it
was just the pull of a life-threatening
video we're in our first kilometer hello
Doug first complication the high tide
has blocked off some pods
so
we're going on this little Trail I'd
made the decision to run my first
marathon less than 24 hours prior this
is a bit fun and my only option was to
finish it unexpected already but I kind
of liked that I had no choice you know
what I mean there's like some comfort in
that definitely did not see this on
Google Maps but I'll be honest [__] as
far as spontaneity is I could have used
some planning there simply must be a way
certainly hit a bit of a interesting
course already a large chunk of the
course I planned was underwater Oh my
God I'd like to say that this didn't
bother me but I was a little bit nervous
didn't expect this to be such a trail
run right at the start so I started
telling myself lies like I Love It
ultimately the thing that kept me going
was that I couldn't not I think we're
gonna be just fine
I was motivated by necessity and this
idea isn't new I mean this particular
execution is but you see it everywhere
in history you've got Cortez burning his
ships at the shore in nature you have
certain birds will teach their chicks to
fly by just throwing them out of the
nest and in literature you have Homer's
Odyssey back to ancient Grace weirdly
not here so Homer's Odyssey remember the
siren song
the song that was said to be so good it
could drive you mad this song wasn't
just a hit it was like a fantano strong
tan Ulysses really wanted to hear that
song like really bad but of course he
knows about doing this will end poorly
should he hear that song he'll be
incapable of thinking rationally his
willpower goes out the window then he
jump in the ocean to follow those sirens
and die alright P sorry buddy you're
dead so he comes up with a new plan
first Ulysses in a totally cool and
normal move puts wax in his Sailors ears
so that they can't hear the sirens then
again cool and normal he gets them to
tie him up to the Mast this way when
they pass the sirens yes he gets to hear
their song but no he doesn't drown and
die life hack today the legacy of the
siren song lives on in the term Ulysses
pact and that's essentially what this
marathon is it's also total chaos
[__] lost I'm in somebody's backyard
a Ulysses pact is a plan that binds you
to Future action I've lost like 20
minutes
multiple guys you make them when you're
thinking clearly to lock you into a goal
that you would abandon when you're not
oh [__]
I'm such an idiot if your Vice as beer
you'd make the packs at home so you keep
your word when you're at the pub I had
locked my marathon in with a thread but
I think my desire for a challenge
actually kicked in and it was working I
think I've been bullying myself
and I like it meanwhile Aaron the guy
filming this whole thing he had made a
Ulysses pact of his own
before we made this video Aaron was
vaping a lot every second
breath I take the equivalent of 60
cigarettes a day and as for quitting I'm
trying to do it hits time I fail for
different reasons every time so Aaron
threw a hail Mary I gave 500 bucks to
cam you and my mum and if I have a vape
in the next month I don't get that money
back now I love Aaron but kind of in the
way that you'd love a brother my pain
isn't working already it's [__] I think
the word shouting freuda knowing that he
was also suffering it really kept my
spirits High which is more than I can
say for the GPS all right you had
another wrong turn I see and this is
karma the keep away signs were probably
the
the giveaway there
whoops
so where do I go
oh yeah [__] that royally now it wasn't
all bad we've hit a runner time it's a
hell of a feeling man we've had a
goddamn Runners High
in this feeling it's a nice parallel to
the Ulysses packed life is good it's a
high that can only be unlocked through
challenge thank you very much and just
like those endorphins thank you thank
you thank you turns out the Ulysses pact
is also backed up by science we'll ride
it out until we hit that runner's crash
there's this website stick that
facilitates these type of agreements why
did I make this so damn difficult this
trap here you're riding your goal and
you sign a contract yeah the Ulysses
packed to lock yourself in so you won't
quit when things get hard this is like a
puzzle book or weird
even with no Financial Stakes just
writing that contract oh my God Styx
data shows that this what the [__] has a
42.7 success rate sure
and once you put your money on the line
like Aaron that success rate almost
doubles to 82.8 percent
when you pay that money with a threat
not just losing your cash but having to
actively donate it to like neo-nazis or
something if you don't hit your goal
give it a shot oh spiders [__]
this feels like a big mistake the
success rate jumps up to 87.1 and it is
if I can get to the beach I think I'll
be good anyone who's into Behavioral
Science will know just how high those
numbers are
oh [__] yeah that works all right that's
all right
and anyone who's into running will know
just how high 746 meters of elevation is
just ran up a bit here oh now I'm
running down a big hill that means I'm
gonna have to run up a big hill again
thanks Sydney such a hilly City
at least it's a beautiful day and a
beautiful day warrants
feeling
to get Where I Wanna Be nothing new
[Music]
if you want it you gotta be ready
that was just awful Let's uh cleanse
ourselves with the books books help we
like books here are five books that help
me a lot with the preparation for this
project and all these books can be found
on short form who is the sponsor of this
video short form is as they say the
world's best book summaries so as a
tribute here are the world's okayest
book summaries because they're my book
summaries at book five Zen and the Art
of Motorcycle Maintenance this book
shows how I'm making your journey
intentionally challenging can be the key
to heightening your emotional connection
to the destination be that on two wheels
or two feet book four Brain on Fire it's
a first-hand account of severe psychosis
and autoimmune disease both of which are
Super present in my immediate family but
it's also a book about Hope in spite of
that book three Born to Run this is one
of my all-time favorite books not just
on running but on anthropology and
philosophy and life sadly it is not on
short form but subscribers can vote on
what book they want next which means
there's always new books book two year
of yes this book is a pretty motivating
parallel to what I'm doing with this
Buckle this project Shonda Rhimes says
yes to everything for a year and
documents her results it's kind of cool
in between the chapters of every book
short form has these really well put
together journaling sections for example
in year of yes the questions were so
good for this bucket project and book
one can't hurt me this is the book that
first made me think that running a
marathon was in any way possible I've
read it in full so I use the short form
summary as a reminder my favorite thing
in this book is Goggins talking about
finding himself on the other side of
pain on the other side of the marathon
so sure for him if you can check it out
there's a link in the description yep
five free days you know try before you
buy if you like it stick around if you
don't that's chill man thoroughly
recommend it genuinely do and I love
that they support this channel
again made it to the Harbor Bridge holy
[__]
[__] yeah this is the Sydney Harbor
Bridge the iconic one the one that they
sometimes show in a disaster movie if
the director is kind enough to include
the southern hemisphere that's what it
said man and running on it oh wow this
bridge made me stoked man what is that
30 K's or something not because it was
iconic but because it was flat as you
will recall visually or from my
complaints the entire run up until this
point was incredibly hilly coolest thing
is this flat it's flat and my legs
realize this and they want to run so you
know I'm a cool parent I'll let him
however the rest of my body my brain
ain't working
had different ideas
hello I've ended up in hospital this is
the reason that I didn't post much
towards the end of last year hence the
little break and videos I have a dodgy
stomach something went wrong in my
insides so here I am I've actually got
like a really sweet room the type of
dodgy that has doctors around me use
scary words like chronic disease and
autoimmune
plus side it made me look pretty
shredded all that weight loss thanks
flare-up
now something about being here is uh got
my old head thinking Hmm a lot of time
to think and one thing that I've been
thinking about
it's just a big world and I'm a small me
and I I there are so many things I
haven't done
maybe it's the painkillers talking
but I think I need to make a big change
this bucket list idea began in a
hospital bed and not even 24 hours in it
was about to end in one
this is definitely the roughest I've
felt in this run just threw up a bunch I
am really really dizzy I hate definitely
isn't helping [__] sorry
it's in better days [__]
it's giving me grief
am I gonna finish I decided to quit
yep that's the twist this is where my
Marathon ends not with a bang but with a
health concern
of course I still had the problem of
that canceling video so here's where I
did something that I'm not very proud of
and you can judge me as much as you like
not too harsh a little sensitive I
cheated I cheated I'm sorry man I called
my wife and asked her to go to the
studio to cancel the video you know what
she says
Maybe
maybe not sure darling absolutely sounds
like you've got a major health concern
she says maybe she says you need more
verification she says how about you find
Aaron and Billy and if they can confirm
that you're truly cooked yes I'll cancel
that video for you
is that love
probably was it what I wanted to hear no
did I do it yes so I find Aaron and
Billy and I tell him what happened I've
just been chomping it man and God bless
my friends man
they made it abundantly clear the second
that they saw me and the second that
they heard about my health concerns
that they didn't give a flying [__]
yeah yeah brother Aaron he launches into
this like super cliche inspiring sports
movie monologue he's doing like this bit
right in in life you know you get you
have these moments where
you hit some walls and
towards the goals that you're trying to
achieve but about three sentences in the
five brain cells that I'm bringing to
the table Aaron's cheesy words kind of
hit man you're really gonna take a step
back and look at the big picture you
know imagine you're 80 years old sit in
your bed and you think man that time
when I want to do that massive run all
through Sydney and I had to stop you
know you're gonna you're gonna hate
yourself you're gonna be like I can't I
can't fathom how I managed to not do
this when you're so close to the Finish
Line how long have you been running long
distances training after this and saying
I'm gonna do it one day well today is
the day today is the day
[Music]
how long have you been running long
distances and training after this and
saying I'm going to do it one day well
today is today
all right we're gonna do this cam we're
gonna go for a little run I'm gonna try
to do something I'm not dressed
appropriately I got my running shoes on
though yeah you haven't done your lace
up bro oh that's funny all right see you
in 20 minutes okay I'm seeing three
hours an hour after you add okay
in the face of 60 daily cigarettes Aaron
starts running right
stop me
pretty funny
I guess I just run and know that he's
going to catch up when I can't breathe
anymore
I mean this shows you it's baiting me
and how much of a joke it is that I'm
doing this and he was right about me
catching up when he couldn't breathe
anymore but he was wrong to call himself
a joke he stumped out three K's in the
hot sun and he paced him man beyond
water that was exactly what I needed
it was only yesterday when I decided
that I'd run this and part of my
research was looking up you know those
like what to know for your first
marathon type things on Reddit and like
don't get me wrong I am a runner I do
love running but I'm reading these
stories and I see this theme almost all
of them said the same thing of your 26
miles the first half is the first 20
miles the second half of your run is the
final six totally different distances
but because you're so exhausted they
require the same effort and me I just
passed the 32k mark the 20 mile Mark and
because I'd read these stories I
prepared for the worst
but instead
a kid you not I'm really not just saying
this that 10K was the easiest 10K I have
ever run in my life
easy light smooth fast
I even got to run with my wife Felicity
and my daughter at one point it was oh
it's freaking stunning
[Music]
my legs felt good man oh my goodness so
I turned up the speed can't believe it
then I just watched that concrete
underneath me disappear
completely about that video obviously
I'll cancel it before it cancels me
right I know it's a cliche I have so
much energy on this last kilometer
there's such a happiness in my heart
right now but I felt like I was flying
just made it onto the street with our
studio I'm gonna [__] make it I can
see it oh my God I can see everybody I
can see them and then I saw the finish
line
[Music]
oh
boom
all right Vlog right now
let's run a marathon
you just ran an Olympic [__] Marathon
dude [__] nice
oh man
feeling
that I told you all that I follow online
always talks about the feeling on the
other side
as this
strange feeling you've never felt before
you know
and just finding yourself on the other
side
as [__] man
I get that now
let's go sell that video alrighty the
task at hand let's go
the very funny task at hand stopping
that horrible video oh my goodness
stupid
idea the worst idea of all time oh my
God
it's really just hitting me it's funny
this whole um video motivation I feel
like I only really needed it at the
start or maybe just to frame it because
honestly once I started running the
whole thing just went away hey gorgeous
hello
um it all just went away and it just
became a run
how strange I really didn't expect that
before this big run I saw marathons as
they were portrayed in every bucket list
an item to tick off once you've done it
it's done and in that sense I kind of
thought that finishing the marathon
would feel like the end of a good book
and initially it totally did but a few
days later I noticed something
it opened up this massive world of
possibility I mean dude if I can do
something that I used to think was
impossible like oh [__] it sounds corny
but what else can I do not just in
running but in life and I'm not the only
one thinking that Aaron went from how
much was it 60 60 years A Day To Zero it
was a lot he quit before I quit I
thought oh my God this is the hardest
thing I'm never gonna be able to do this
and I remember very specifically having
that mindset and then going what was
that to get through it and it's probably
it's going to be like a very long period
of time of pain and now that it's been a
month it was only like four days of pain
hey
it was painful but now looking back I
think I'm an idiot for thinking that it
was hard not an idiot but like it was
foolish of me to think that it wasn't
possible because right now it feels
really easy that I did it
when you cross the finish line in a
marathon literal or figurative the thing
that ends isn't running you'll run again
the thing that actually ends is your
former self the person that you used to
be when you thought that running a
marathon was impossible they no longer
exist that finish line is their Finish
Line and for the person you become a
person fueled by how possible everything
suddenly seems
that line is where they start
[Music]